feat: add table of contents of the tutorial (#125)
eigerco/pallet-move: tutorial/Tutorial.md

# Move Pallet Tutorial

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Setup and Code Example](#setup-and-code-example)
- [Estimation of Needed Gas](#estimation-of-needed-gas)
- [Publishing Modules](#publishing-modules)
- [Executing Scripts](#executing-scripts)

## Overview

To make Move interoperable with Substrate, we provide the package manager [smove](https://github.com/eigerco/smove), which can compile your Move projects, create bundles, access and act with the network node and more.

In this tutorial we are showing a summary of a workflow with Move on a Substrate template node. We will publish a module and execute a script which uses that module's functionality. Therefore, the package manager `smove` will be used to compile those resources, to estimate the needed amount of gas, and to create the script-transaction. Finally we publish the module and execute a script via using [polkadot.js](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/).

## Setup and Code Example 

Initial requirements:
- [Install smove](https://github.com/eigerco/smove)
- Setup a substrate node with pallet-move integrated or use [our template node](https://github.com/eigerco/substrate-node-template-move-vm-test)

> - Switch into the code example directory in `pallet-move/tests/assets/move-projects/car-wash-example`

Reviewer: Or `Switch current working directory to`
```suggestion
- Go to the code example directory in `pallet-move/tests/assets/move-projects/car-wash-example`
```

    public fun initial_coin_minting(module_owner: &signer) {}

    /// Registers a new user. The account address will be added to the storage Balance with zero initial washing coins.
    public fun register_new_user(account: &signer) {}

    /// Buys a washing coin for the car wash. Therfore, `COIN_PRICE` will be withdrawn from the user's account.
    // Note: It would be nice to have the ability to buy multiple coins at once, but it's not implemented for this example.
    public fun buy_coin(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}

    /// Initiates the washing process by paying one washing coin.
    public fun wash_car(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}
}
```

Each publically usable method will be depicted into an executable script, like this style:
```move
script {
    use DeveloperBob::CarWash;
    
    fun initial_coin_minting(account: signer) {
        CarWash::initial_coin_minting(&account);
    }
}
```

Now let's compile this project to be ready for estimation of needed gas and publication of the module.
```sh
smove build
```

## Estimation of Needed Gas

> Gas can be seen as weights in Substrate. It will adjust the fees for the execution or publication of Move resources. Hereby we prevent that scripts will be sued to exploit somehow the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gas can be seen as weights in the Substrate. It will adjust the fees for the execution or publication of Move resources. Hereby, we prevent malicious scripts from running forever.
```

Author: Done

    }

    /// Method executes the ICO without money. The module owner (also the car wash owner) gets deposited the minted washing coins.
    public fun initial_coin_minting(module_owner: &signer) {}

    /// Registers a new user. The account address will be added to the storage Balance with zero initial washing coins.
    public fun register_new_user(account: &signer) {}

    /// Buys a washing coin for the car wash. Therfore, `COIN_PRICE` will be withdrawn from the user's account.
    // Note: It would be nice to have the ability to buy multiple coins at once, but it's not implemented for this example.
    public fun buy_coin(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}

    /// Initiates the washing process by paying one washing coin.
    public fun wash_car(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}
}
```

Each publically usable method will be depicted into an executable script, like this style:
```move
script {
    use DeveloperBob::CarWash;
    
    fun initial_coin_minting(account: signer) {
        CarWash::initial_coin_minting(&account);
    }
}
```

Now let's compile this project to be ready for estimation of needed gas and publication of the module.
```sh
smove build
```

> ## Estimation of Needed Gas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Gas estimation for publishing a module
```

Gas can be seen as weights in Substrate. It will adjust the fees for the execution or publication of Move resources. Hereby we prevent that scripts will be sued to exploit somehow the blockchain.

> A good estimation of needed amount of gas for publishing a module can be provided by `smove`:

Reviewer: To estimate the optimal amount of gas for your module, use `smove` tool:

Author: Done

```sh
smove node rpc estimate-gas-publish-module --account-id 5FHneW46xGXgs5mUiveU4sbTyGBzmstUspZC92UhjJM694ty --module-path build/car-wash-example/bytecode_modules/CarWash.mv
```

The successful result will look like:
```sh
Estimated gas: Estimate (gas_used: 69, vm_status_code: EXECUTED)
```

## Publishing Modules

The compiled bytecode file can be found in the subfolder
```sh
build/car-wash-example/bytecode_modules
```

Do the following steps in polkadot.js:
* Switch to menu _Developer_->_Extrinsics_.
* Select the Move pallet. In our template node it is called `moveModule`.
* For this pallet, choose extrinsic `publishModule(bytecode, gasLimit)`. Paramter explanation:
* - __bytecode__ represents the compiled module bytecode. Fill it up by uploading the compiled file `CarWash.mv` (from previous compilation).
* - __gasLimit__ use the estimated optimal amount of gas for publishing this module from the subsection before. Using less than that will make the extrinsic fail, while using more is not necessary.

![Publish a module using polkadot.js](polkadot.js_publish_module.png)

> Note, that the module can only be published, if the specified module address `DeveloperBob` matches the users address (which is in this case Bob's wallet address).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the module can only be published if the specified module address `DeveloperBob` in the `Move.toml` file of the Move project matches the user's address (in this case, Bob's wallet address).
```

Author: Done

> Additionally we can verify that the module has successfully been published, by requesting the module's abi specification using `smove`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we can verify that the module has successfully been published by requesting the module's abi specification using `smove`:
```

Author: Done

# Move Pallet Tutorial

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Setup and Code Example](#setup-and-code-example)
- [Gas Estimation for Publishing a Module](#gas-estimation-for-publishing-a-module)
- [Publishing Modules](#publishing-modules)
- [Executing Scripts](#executing-scripts)

## Overview

To make Move interoperable with Substrate, we provide the package manager [smove](https://github.com/eigerco/smove), which can compile your Move projects, create bundles, access and act with the network node and more.

> In this tutorial we are showing a summary of a workflow with Move on a Substrate template node. We will publish a module and execute a script which uses that module's functionality. Therefore, the package manager `smove` will be used to compile those resources, to estimate the needed amount of gas, and to create the script-transaction. Finally we publish the module and execute a script via using [polkadot.js](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows a summary of a workflow with Move on a Substrate template node. We will publish a module and execute a script which uses that module's functionality. Therefore, the package manager `smove` will be used to compile those resources, estimate the required amount of gas, and create the `script-transaction`. Finally, publish the module and execute a script using [polkadot.js](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/).
```

Author: Done

## Setup and Code Example 

Initial requirements:
- [Install smove](https://github.com/eigerco/smove)

> - Setup a substrate node with pallet-move integrated or use [our template node](https://github.com/eigerco/substrate-node-template-move-vm-test)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Setup our [our template node](https://github.com/eigerco/substrate-node-template-move-vm-test) with pallet-move integrated and run it in the background
```

Author: Done

> - Switch current working directory to the code example directory in `pallet-move/tests/assets/move-projects/car-wash-example`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Switch the current working directory to the code example directory in `pallet-move/tests/assets/move-projects/car-wash-example`
```

Author: Done

```move
module DeveloperBob::CarWash {
    /// Struct stores number of coins for each user.
    struct Balance has key, store {
        coins: u8
    }

    /// Method executes the ICO without money. The module owner (also the car wash owner) gets deposited the minted washing coins.
    public fun initial_coin_minting(module_owner: &signer) {}

    /// Registers a new user. The account address will be added to the storage Balance with zero initial washing coins.
    public fun register_new_user(account: &signer) {}

    /// Buys a washing coin for the car wash. Therfore, `COIN_PRICE` will be withdrawn from the user's account.
    // Note: It would be nice to have the ability to buy multiple coins at once, but it's not implemented for this example.
    public fun buy_coin(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}

    /// Initiates the washing process by paying one washing coin.
    public fun wash_car(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}
}
```

> Each publically usable method will be depicted into an executable script, like this style:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All public module methods can be used in an executable script, for example:
```

Author: Done

```move
script {
    use DeveloperBob::CarWash;
    
    fun initial_coin_minting(account: signer) {
        CarWash::initial_coin_minting(&account);
    }
}
```

> Now let's compile this project to be ready for estimation of needed gas and publication of the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's compile this project to be ready for the estimation of needed gas and publication of the module.
```

Author: Done

```sh
smove build
```

## Gas Estimation for Publishing a Module

Gas can be seen as weights in the Substrate. It will adjust the fees for the execution or publication of Move resources. Hereby, we prevent malicious scripts from running forever.

To estimate the optimal amount of gas for your module, use `smove` tool:
```sh
smove node rpc estimate-gas-publish-module --account-id 5FHneW46xGXgs5mUiveU4sbTyGBzmstUspZC92UhjJM694ty --module-path build/car-wash-example/bytecode_modules/CarWash.mv
```

The successful result will look like:
```sh
Estimated gas: Estimate (gas_used: 69, vm_status_code: EXECUTED)
```

## Publishing Modules

The compiled bytecode file can be found in the subfolder
```sh
build/car-wash-example/bytecode_modules
```

> Do the following steps in polkadot.js:

Reviewer: Maybe we can insert a link here (https://polkadot.js.org/apps)
```suggestion
Do the following steps in polkadot.js GUI:
```

Author: Done

* Switch to menu _Developer_->_Extrinsics_.
* Select the Move pallet. In our template node it is called `moveModule`.

> * For this pallet, choose extrinsic `publishModule(bytecode, gasLimit)`. Paramter explanation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For this pallet, choose extrinsic `publishModule(bytecode, gasLimit)`. Parameter explanation:
```

Author: Done

> * - __bytecode__ represents the compiled module bytecode. Fill it up by uploading the compiled file `CarWash.mv` (from previous compilation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* - __bytecode__ represents the compiled module bytecode. Fill it up by uploading the compiled file `CarWash.mv` (from the previous compilation).
```

Author: Done

> * - __gasLimit__ use the estimated optimal amount of gas for publishing this module from the subsection before. Using less than that will make the extrinsic fail, while using more is not necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* - __gasLimit__ - use the estimated optimal amount of gas for publishing this module from the previous subsection. Using less than that will make the extrinsic fail, while using more is unnecessary (and more costly).
```

Author: Done

![Publish a module using polkadot.js](polkadot.js_publish_module.png)

Note that the module can only be published if the specified module address `DeveloperBob` in the `Move.toml` file of the Move project matches the user's address (in this case, Bob's wallet address).

> Additionally, we can verify that the module has successfully been published by requesting the module's abi specification using `smove`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we can verify that the module has successfully been published by requesting the module's ABI specification using `smove`:
```

Author: Done

```sh
smove node rpc get-module-abi --address 5FHneW46xGXgs5mUiveU4sbTyGBzmstUspZC92UhjJM694ty --name CarWash
```
You should get a longer response that starts with:
```sh
Module ABI: Some(ModuleAbi { # ...
```

> That is the proof, that your module has successfully been published. Dear reader - you just managed to publish your module - isn't that easy?! :blush:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is proof that the module has been published on the chain successfully.
```

Author: Done

## Executing Scripts

> Compiled move resources will be passed to pallet-move's extrinsic calls in form of bytecode. polkadot.js automatically serializes uploaded files, but if scripts require additional function parameters, they also have to be serialized on top of the script bytecode. To accomplish that we use also `smove`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiled move scripts must be passed to pallet-move's extrinsic calls in serialized transactions, which are created with the `create-transaction` command. If scripts require additional function parameters, those input parameters also have to be provided to our command:
```

Author: Done

```sh
smove create-transaction --compiled-script-path build/car-wash-example/bytecode_scripts/initial_coin_minting.mv --args signer:5FHneW46xGXgs5mUiveU4sbTyGBzmstUspZC92UhjJM694ty
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_An important note here - if the script function requires a signer, that signer's address needs to be the same as the Substrate account which will use this serialized transaction to execute this script._
```

Author: Done

If you see the following message: 
```sh
Script transaction is created at:
# ... 
```

> script and passed parameters have been serialized into the specified output file, which now can be found be used in polkadot.js:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It means the script and provided parameters have been serialized into the specified output file (serialized transaction), which can now be used in polkadot.js:
```

Author: Done

![Execute a script with parameters in polkadot.js](polkadot.js_execute_script_init.png)

The additional parameters are:

> * __gasLimit__ is a limitation for maximum gas usage for the script execution can be specified 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __gasLimit__ is a limitation for the maximum gas the script is allowed to use in the MoveVM. If the script requires more gas than provided, MoveVM will fail to execute the script, and the user will need to retry again with more gas provided.
```

Author: Done

> * __chequeLimit__ is your token limit for optional transfer of tokens between accounts. If the parameter will be set to zero, no tokens can be withdrawn during the script execution. In this example the script `initial_coin_minting` will not withdraw any tokens, but `buy_coin` will need to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __chequeLimit__ is your token limit for optional transfer of tokens between accounts. If the parameter is set to zero, no tokens can be withdrawn during the script execution. In this example the script `initial_coin_minting` will not withdraw any tokens, but `buy_coin` will need to.
```

Author: Done

# Move Pallet Tutorial

## Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [The Code Example](#the-code-example)
- [Publishing the Module](#publishing-the-module)
- [Estimation of Needed Gas](#estimation-of-needed-gas)
- [Demonstration of Use Case](#demonstration-of-use-case)

## Overview

> Move is a smart-contract language with focus on security and the possibility to write your individual resources. To make it interoperable with Substrate we provide the package manager `smove`, which can compile your Move projects, create bundles, access and act with the network node and more. Like in Rust we have Cargo, in Move we have [`smove`](https://github.com/eigerco/smove).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Move is a smart contract language with a focus on security and the possibility of writing your individual resources. To make it interoperable with Substrate, we provide the package manager `smove`, which can compile your Move projects, create bundles, access and act with the network node and more. Like in Rust we have Cargo, in Move we have [`smove`](https://github.com/eigerco/smove).
```

Author: Done, as far as possible, there were more modifications before due to requests from Karlo :blush:

> In this tutorial we are showing a summary of a workflow with Move on a Substrate template node. We will publish a module and execute a script which uses that module's functionality. Therefor, the package manager `smove` will be used to compile that resources, to estimate the needed amount of gas, and to create the script-transaction. Finally we publish the module and executing a script via using [polkadot.js](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows a summary of a workflow with Move on a Substrate template node. We will publish a module and execute a script which uses that module's functionality. Therefore, the package manager `smove` will be used to compile those resources, estimate the needed amount of gas, and create the script-transaction. Finally, we publish the module and execute a script using [polkadot.js](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/).
```

## The Code Example 

> In our example a simple car wash is modelized, where washing coins are used to control the usage of the car wash. Users can register, buy washing coins and use them to start the car wash. For the sake of simplicity, we show here only the function headers of the Move module, the full module can be seen [here](https://github.com/eigerco/pallet-move/blob/main/tests/assets/move-projects/car-wash-example/sources/CarWash.move).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In our example, a simple car wash is modelized, where washing coins are used to control the usage of the car wash. Users can register, buy washing coins and use them to start the car wash. For the sake of simplicity, we show here only the function headers of the Move module, the full module can be seen [here](https://github.com/eigerco/pallet-move/blob/main/tests/assets/move-projects/car-wash-example/sources/CarWash.move).
```

Author: Done

```move
module DeveloperBob::CarWash {
    /// Struct stores number of coins for each user.
    struct Balance has key, store {
        coins: u8
    }

>     /// Method executes the ICO without money. The module owner (also car wash owner) gets deposited the minted washing coins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /// Method executes the ICO without money. The module owner (also the car wash owner) gets deposited the minted washing coins.
```

Author: Done

    public fun initial_coin_minting(module_owner: &signer) {}

>     /// Registers a new user. The account address will be added to storage Balance with zero initial washing coins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /// Registers a new user. The account address will be added to the storage Balance with zero initial washing coins.
```

Author: Done

    public fun register_new_user(account: &signer) {}

>     /// Buys a washing coin for the car wash. Therfor, `COIN_PRICE` will be withdrawn from the user's account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /// Buys a washing coin for the car wash. Therefore, `COIN_PRICE` will be withdrawn from the user's account.
```

    // Note: It would be nice to have the ability to buy multiple coins at once, but it's not implemented for this example.
    public fun buy_coin(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}

    /// Initiates the washing process by paying one washing coin.
    public fun wash_car(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}
}
```

Each publically usable method will be depicted into an executable script, like this style:
```move
script {
    use DeveloperBob::CarWash;
    
    fun initial_coin_minting(account: signer) {
        CarWash::initial_coin_minting(&account);
    }
}
```

## Publishing the Module

> Now we compile the project by using smove:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we compile the project by using `smove`:
```

Author: Done

        coins: u8
    }

    /// Method executes the ICO without money. The module owner (also the car wash owner) gets deposited the minted washing coins.
    public fun initial_coin_minting(module_owner: &signer) {}

    /// Registers a new user. The account address will be added to the storage Balance with zero initial washing coins.
    public fun register_new_user(account: &signer) {}

    /// Buys a washing coin for the car wash. Therfore, `COIN_PRICE` will be withdrawn from the user's account.
    // Note: It would be nice to have the ability to buy multiple coins at once, but it's not implemented for this example.
    public fun buy_coin(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}

    /// Initiates the washing process by paying one washing coin.
    public fun wash_car(user: &signer) acquires Balance {}
}
```

Each publically usable method will be depicted into an executable script, like this style:
```move
script {
    use DeveloperBob::CarWash;
    
    fun initial_coin_minting(account: signer) {
        CarWash::initial_coin_minting(&account);
    }
}
```

## Publishing Modules

Now we compile the project by using `smove`:
```sh
smove build
```

> The compiled bytecode file can be found in the subfolder `build/car-wash-example/bytecode_modules`. In this tutorial we running a Substrate template node with pallet-move already integrated. Description how tu run that can be found [here](https://github.com/eigerco/substrate-node-template-move-vm-test). In polkadot.js via __Developer__->__Extrinsics__ we can select the `moveModule` and extrinsic `publishModule(bytecode, gasLimit)`. Paramter __bytecode__ will be filled by uploading the compiled file `CarWash.mv`. To limit possible fees for the publication, we can adjust the __gasLimit__ or set the value high enough to just accept it. How the needed amount of gas can be estimated properly, will be shown in the [next subsection](#estimation-of-needed-gas).

Reviewer: Overall suggestion to replace this huge block of text:

The compiled bytecode file `CarWash.mv` can be found at the location:
```
build/car-wash-example/bytecode_modules/CarWash.mv`
```

In polkadot.js: 
- Under the __Developer__ button on top
- Select the __Extrinsics__ option
- In the new __Extrinsics__ page pick the `moveModule` pallet
- For this pallet, choose extrinsic `publishModule(bytecode, gasLimit)`. Parameter explanation:
  - __bytecode__ represents the compiled module bytecode. Fill it by uploading the compiled file `CarWash.mv` (from previous compilation). 
  - __gasLimit__ is used for xxx. Use the optimal value provided by the previous estimation RPC command. Using less than that will make the extrinsic fail, while using more is just not necessary and more expensive)

I would omit this part from here:
~In this tutorial we running a Substrate template node with pallet-move already integrated. Description how tu run that can be found [here](https://github.com/eigerco/substrate-node-template-move-vm-test).~

and mention at the beginning of the tutorial - this is a prerequisite:
 - make sure you run the node with pallet-move already integrated using these [instructions ](https://github.com/eigerco/substrate-node-template-move-vm-test).

Author: Done
